We
were discussing whether or not we would have
changed our our approach or whether the
profession should have changed their approach
and what was your comment on that? Well I started to
say you know when we graduated we thought we were
pretty well pretty knowledgeable and some of the
old vet old vets around that been around for a while
we thought they were kind of back woodsy and I
worked with Dr. Bailey and taught that old vet
school back in the 1920s, 18, 1918
and all right after World War I and think about the
type of practice he carried on and he carried on a
pretty good, pretty smart operator and I think of
what the new graduates have to go through and I
think I'm way behind time now and can't catch up.
Well, all these autoimmune diseases and so forth
take a lot more knowledge than what we were exposed
to then. Of course, we've kept up with a lot of it,
but wouldn't you say perhaps that since you and I
graduated, they've learned about as much about
animal disease since we graduated as we were
exposed to in school and before? That's right. I
think we... Of course, I think about old that
bacteriology merchant giving us all his wisdom
and how much farther what we didn't know about
viruses in those days, don't you? Yes, and
immunity. Yeah, immunity and I look at the old book
textbook every once in a while I think we'll all
have to admit that the advent of chick embryo
vaccines really helped a lot because here they
could grow it without having to have an animal. All
they needed was the eggs. That's right. And it's
helped a lot. See, they started that chick embryo
there at St. Joe Laboratories. I think about all
the eggs and eggs and thousands and thousands of
eggs that they run through that place down there on
the river bottom.
The,
what do you think about, I
was going to ask you some questions about
organized veterinary medicine, but I want to put
that on a separate tape. Let me ask you this, I feel
that during our practice life, there is a
possibility that the clients have changed, and
that as times have gone, we're supposed to be more
intelligent and so forth, and approach to things.
Aren't clients considerably more critical and
expect a whole lot more than they did when we first
went into practice? For instance, were people
pleased, more easily pleased with what you could
do then than even they are now? You
mean pleased now or pleased then? Pleased then.
well if you could keep your dog alive back in those
days well you're pretty pretty good you know if you
didn't let it die with distemper if you kept it got
it through distemper i don't know whether you went
through those distemper times or not uh that we i
remember them from north carolina a lot and we
didn't have real active immunity and then your dog
would break with that It's not no distemper that
we'd see. It just wasn't anything you could do. I
mean, what did you fight it with? Well, of course,
whatever we used, it seems the outcome was the same
as about what you said, but I felt with distemper,
if you had a client that could do the nurse's dog and
the dog didn't get encephalitis, you had it made.
You had it made. You could bring... We used to
vaccinate them. That was what the old Fox people
wanted. They wanted one that was actively immune.
He didn't want one that was going to break after you
got him out and started running him. And we put him
in just what we call the distemper ward and wait
till the temperature rise and try to fight him
down. That's the way we did it. I mean, they did it. I
didn't. I wasn't a vet. I was just a student in a
kennel band at that time. And I remember it's so bad
it was pretty bad. Do you recall hard pad disease in
the late 40s? I remember the hard pad disease when
it hit and came supposed to have come from England
and you'd get a dog on a table and you'd hear him his
feet scratching the table and you just about as
well kiss him goodbye as I remember it. Now have you
seen one lately? I've seen one or two lately I mean
No, not very many. Maybe a couple last year. I
haven't, I don't know if I've seen any this year,
but I know I saw a couple last year. We used to get, we
get an awful lot of snake bites. Get a lot of, a lot of
snake bites here due to the location of our
practice.
Used to get quite a few thallium poisons. Don't see
much thallium anymore. Used to a lot of strychnine
don't you think? Yeah I see quite a few strychnine
now I've had some recent poilings that I don't know
whether there's somebody got any 1080 or not but
I'm beginning to think we've got some 1080
floating around. I saw a thing on TV the other night
that they were getting going to get 1080 back for
coyotes up in the hill country from Brown Brady I
think or someplace up in there and that 1080 is a I
don't think you can do any good for it. I never have
found anything. Do you have ever, have you ever
found anything? No, we don't have much down there,
fortunately. I got in a new poison the other day
from California. I don't know that I got it. It's a
rat poison that they use in California, and the
stuff is So toxic. I mean, I called a veterinarian
out there. And he told me about it. What they can't
remember the name of it. Let's see.
But it is, he said it was rough. And he said, don't
think you've got them cured until you've been a
long time. Gone by. Let me ask you another
question. You know, when we first got into
practice, we thought that the cat disease was
infectious panleukopenia. What do you think
about viral diseases in cats now? I'm kind of lost.
I'm not very
up-to-date on it, I'm afraid. I'll have to admit, I
wonder when I see some of these pictures our
literature coming out and the new vaccine the
calcivirus and whatnot I wonder if we haven't had
that all along didn't know what we had how about you
well without a doubt we had some of it before but the
feline infectious anemia we had then
hemobartonella also the feline infectious
peritonitis with the swelled tummies we've had
that for long time, but I really think perhaps that
this feline leukemia perhaps is relatively
recent.
The cats just seem to get cat decline, and many of
those are positive leukemia. You found that
poison? Yeah. What's it called? Ramek Green. How
does that spell? R-A-M-I-C-K. G-R-E-E-N.
And it's Velsicol KRL, is that what it's called?
Yeah, ceramic green is the name of it, I think. And
it's a... It's not like decon, is it? Yeah, it's a
decon type thing, but he says it works. I call it Dr.
Christie in California. He said it was very bad
like decon like poisoning and the vitamin K blood
transfusions and everything he said it was he had
treated it though for this lady and she had moved
here from California and I called and talked to
him.
Well uh what other observations you have on
veterinary medicine you think it's been good to
you? Been good to me I've had nothing but I've
enjoyed my practice for years. Really, I'm
probably not as good an up-to-date veterinarian
as I could have been, but I think I've served the
community about as well as anybody could from the
standpoint of taking care of large animals, small
animals in the hall. Now, you can't be a general
practitioner and do it all, and and be an expert in
in everything but uh an area that can't support a
veterinarian needs a general practitioner and
when you have a small animal man move in and do
nothing in an area that needs this large animal man
i'm kind of critical of that and i have been
outspoken on it i think it's uh the day of the
general practitioner they say is gone but i in the
small community you better be able to do a little of
everything when these clients go to a
veterinarian and he says I don't treat anything
but dogs and cats and the people don't like it
especially if there's nobody else who can take
care of them within 100 miles but in general on
large animals with the exception of horses isn't
the era of the small herd finished where you have
maybe have a half dozen cows and they call you out
for dystopia and whatnot that sort of thing is
almost gone. Those things are gone. When I came to
this area here I used to come in here when I was still
in Corpus come into this area here and I'd test 40,
50 cows for bangs and TB and- Not all the same herd.
Well no two cows here three cows in another place
five over here and I'd have to hunt hard to find one
or two milk cows right now. There are no milk cows
out. No dairy, no small farmers. They all get their
milk out of a cardboard carton. And your practice,
as far as Lardown was, there's very little family
type like we used to have. This area used to be a
rural community with lots of two or three cow
people. milk cows that milked them, but they're
just not here anymore. You'd starve to death. But
by the same token, you need somebody to take care of
what cows there are and what horses there are, and
we have a lot of just nothing but small animal men in
the area, and they can't be a large animal man. Now,
we've got a new large animal man in the area, and
he's doing very well. keep doing small animal and
large animals but we've had three and four of them
in the in the general area that wouldn't wouldn't
look at a cow in their backyard wouldn't help their
neighbor even I've been in the backyard of the vets
and the ranches and backyards of ones in Rockport
and uh they just won't touch them and I I don't think
it's it's right that you they better call a man 20 20
miles off when they're sitting right in his
backyard. That's the way I feel now. If a man has to
call a vet from 25, 30, 40 miles away and still has a
vet in his backyard that won't treat anything
because he's either not qualified or he's scared
to death of large animals, you know what I'm
talking about. And they don't like it. and I'm
critical of that fact and they say well you can't do
both but if he if he moves in and treats nothing but
dogs and cats and the closest vet is 30 miles away
and a large animal man can't make it on in that area
by himself I think he's it's bad You can't help but
notice as the veterinary graduates come out of the
schools now that about half the graduates are
women. Yeah. Have you adjusted to that? I'm not
against the women veterinarians. I just don't
know whether they can do any work out in the, as much
work out in the field. They may be a cowgirl that can
get out and wrestle cattle and take and do the jobs
that we've done in the past. Maybe the rancher's
going to do his own OB work, do everything like
that. Maybe this woman's going out and do some of
the work that I've done in the past, but I don't
believe she is. I don't think she's going out and
wrassling these herds around. Maybe she will, but
I just don't believe it.
Yeah, I haven't seen it yet. I know they do pretty
good in a small animal practice.
Would you feel that obviously a
lot of these women aren't staying in practice? Do
you think it's a waste of the taxpayers money in a
lot of cases to uh- I saw some something some uh
research or literature or something on people
women staying in practice here the other day said
that the women were staying in small animal
practice about as good as the large as the men were
in in small animal practice uh
I don't know whether that's true or not but I it was
in I think the latest southwestern veterinarian
talking about was that right yeah I'll have to get
that magazine. It's over at the house. We can let
you look at it, read it. I'd like to see that
statistic. I think it's in there. I'm not
positive, but I read a little bit at night until my
eyes go bad. Let's change the subject a little bit,
and it's part of the same subject but really
different. One of the big things that veterinary
medicine does or veterinary medicine needs is
enough camaraderie and enough sharing and
pooling of thought and ideas so that we can help
each other help the public. When you first came
from school and came down here in Corpus Christi,
what was organized veterinary medicine like at
that time to your way of looking at it? There wasn't
much of an organization as far as I know of. We got
maybe We'd get together once in a while over a meal,
and that was about it, and talk about it. Who were
the veterinarians at that time here in Corpus
Christi who participated in that? We had Dr. Dunn.
What were his initials?
I don't know. I think S.E., but I'm not. Dr. Oberg.
Oh, yes. What were his initials? Don't ask me those
questions. Oberg. came down from Nebraska. He was
a real hog specialist, swine specialist up in his
field and he came down here I think due to bad health
and all and he practiced. If you had a hog problem
you'd call him. I mean he was a large animal man. Dr.
Dunn was the veterinarian for from south of all
south Texas so to speak. He practiced from the You
might say Victoria to the Laredo, all of that
point. There wasn't another vent in the country.
And he covered from Victoria over towards Laredo
and all of that area south of that. And he was gone
most of the time. And then he had Dr. Fondren came in
from San Antonio. Fondren moved here. came in to
work with Dr. Dunn at that time and he had an old
graduate army sergeant or whatever you want
working for him at the time, Dr. Dunn did and that
was all that was in Corpus except Dr. Springs
Hospital. And you all got together, did you? We got
together and talked things over and the doctor We
had a few meetings. Then Dr. Brandes and Hoban and
later Dr. Pruitt, I think we all got together and
started a little meeting. And the first
organization was a meeting, I think we organized
about 50. 1950
was about the first time we really called it a
Coastal Bend Veterinary Group. And that included
where, from Alice and Kingsville on? Yeah, we had
Kingsville, we had Thal Fuerst, Dr. Saxton came
over,
Dr. Scotty out of Beeville, and Scotty McNeil, and
uh, Botard, when he graduated, he went to
Kingsville, and uh, We got together maybe once a
month. We met over at Kingsville at King's Inn a
couple times, and then we, usually we'd just have a
meeting where we'd get together, and then I think
it was, according to Hoban, we organized in about
1950. Oh, yes. He was first secretary, and I was
first president of our group. Was Dr. Spring there
at that time? Dr. Spring was leaving. He left long
about that time. I had brought the hospital. Dr.
Spriggle was working for me and
we'd get together and hoping Oberg would come,
some, until he, you know, and we'd invite them all
and try to get them to come in and Just talk things
over. That was the first organization we had.
Brandis and Pruitt came along about that time,
didn't they? Yeah, they moved in about that time.
And they were quite active, weren't they? They
built their hospitals, and they had one, and then
they moved out on the highway out there
afterwards. Yes. Down through the years, who's
been the most faithful and more or less keeping you
going here in Corpus Christi? Well, after I left,
too. Of course I left there in 56, 57 I think.
Doctor,
well I know Paget has probably kept the thing going
as much as anybody. I see. I think. He and his wife
too? Yeah. He sent out letters and all. Now we've
got the- What's the name of his receptionist? Dr.
Slater is that woman veterinarian, I think. She's
the secretary now. She sends out all the notices.
And I haven't been too active recently. I kind of
slid out of it. I went to their Christmas party this
year, and that's about the last time I've been. I
just don't go much. They have so many new
veterinarians, 20 or 30 of them. Dr. Fry moved in.
The two Frys, Dr. Fry and... both of those are
pretty active too. And I
know Dr. Scotty McNeil and I drove to Abilene to try
to reorganize the state association, you know.
We had the state association meeting here one
time. 1965.
Right. Well, that was the second one, I think. Oh,
okay. We had one before that. Okay. And Dr. Grist
organized it. He was the secretary at that time.
And Dr. Blunt was active in the state association.
I don't know what he was. Later. Huh? Later. Yeah,
but Dr. Grist was the original. He organized our
first meeting in Corpus. Yes. came down and made
all the contacts and hotels and arrangements for
meeting rooms and everything else. And he could
tell you more about it than I can. I can't remember
that meeting. Was I in the service then? I may have
been. Probably was. Yes. That was the first
meeting we had was in, along about that time, I
think it was probably in 49, 50, right about the
time we tried to reorganize after the meeting here
with I know we went to Abilene and they hired some
public relations man to kick us off and whatnot.
Yes. I don't know whether you remember that or not.
Well, I know I don't really recall that, but I,
again, I may not have been here. As far as you know,
they didn't keep a set of written records here in
the Coastal Bend Association, right? So far
nobody can find it. If they did, I mean, Hoban I was
secretary at the time. We didn't have much of an
organization as far as dues or just kind of a get
together to talk things over. What was going on,
you know, was all it was. It wasn't a very fancy
organization. Now, I forgot one vet that was here
that was kind of active. It was Dr. Judson, you
know. had a pretty nice little hospital there for
you. He was pretty active. He passed on, is that
right? Yeah, he died. He had cancer of the throat.
Judson was...
He was born about what year, about 1920? I imagine
he was about our age, 20, and he was brought up down
in Mexico by Mexican I mean, he spoke Mexican real
good, and he set up his practice there in the Port
Ayers community right north of Hoban's a little
ways, and he had a pretty nice little hospital, you
know. Judson did. Yes. What was his first name?
William. William. I've got it easy. And he's been
gone how many years? He probably died in 50, 60,
about 60-something. I don't remember exactly. I
went to his funeral. I went to his marriage when he
got married. See, he didn't get married early, and
he was still... What's the current status of the
Veterinary Association here? You don't really
know much about it. I'm not active. I know I went to
the Christmas party out at the Fry's house.
There's so many young ones and stuff, I feel kind of
like a lost goose out there. Was there a Holcomb
here, you know?
There's a bunch of them in Portland, and Dr. Bauer
is in Portland. We got two or three others in
Portland. We got the one in Taft now. go. Dr. the
real McCoy's in Senton. Think about TDMA? Yes.
Well I have been a member off and on and I'm not a
member up in good standing right now I don't think.
I'm kind of dropped out. I'll have to talk you into
that again. What? I'll have to talk you into that
again. Yeah well I've been a member and Barb was
president of the TVMA Auxiliary, you know. I was
active along in there, you know, but I kind of
dropped out when you don't go to meetings, and I
guess you just get old. Lazy, don't want to go. No,
I'd like to
probably keep my membership. Dr. Spring let his
license expire. Well, but he, where's he living
now? He's 72, you know, and he figured, well, I'm
not going to do much practice. He let his license,
he didn't renew it in time, and, you know, just kind
of one of those things that by that time his wife's
real sick, and he's had a triple bypass, and he
didn't get his membership in, so he's He said, I'd
kind of like to have it, but it's not that
important, you know.
At this same time or on the same day, I had a
telephone conversation with Dr. Martin Pigott in
regard to the history of the Coastal Bend
Veterinary Medical Association. He said when he
was first there, which we have discussed in
regards to Dr. Haubutzel's beginning here, they
started relatively informally and then it built
up and built up. to the point where they were
actually having formal dinner meetings and
having them program every time and so forth and
then worked off after that into seminars and for
three years They had a lot of very heavy technical
seminars. They would, of course, discuss very
highly technical aspects of clinical medicine
and practice and so forth and so on. Then following
that, some of them more or less were burned out, not
so much the dinner meeting, but they were burned
out on all this technical material.
They filled their minds with a lot of things and
felt that they really weren't helping their
clientele a whole lot with a lot of this material,
especially as regards the service they were
giving their clientele. And the meetings then
became less formal. And instead of having dinner
meetings, they'd meet in a place, order off the
menu if needed to do that, or just meet separately.
and became much, much less formal and they would
discuss problems in regards to the management and
helping their clients and so forth and so on and
became less formal. Now this increased formality
began about a year ago and of course this is the year
1982.
So with that, we can see the vagaries and the
fluctuations of emphasis in practice and how
veterinary medicine is going to aid the public.